# Determining-Potential-Readers-For-a-Target-Book
The project aims to find potential readers for a specific book. It presents stakeholders as publishing houses or bookstores. It takes into account the preferences of the users based on the books that they have read and reviewed, defined here on as user-book interaction. The user is defined as the main agent. In our problem statement, given user-book interaction data, potential users are ascertained for a target book. The supplemental objective here is to understand which users are more likely to buy the “new” book, given their likes, dislikes, past reading history, and their reviews/ratings on those books. The project’s aim is to use a similarity score between the “target” book and the books read/liked by the users and present a group of users who are the target readers for that specific book.

In a broader scope, this tool will help the publishing houses/vendors to identify a set of users towards whom the marketing communications must be pushed out. Customized and targeted marketing strategies can be prepared, and thus, using the data science principles, the hope is to market the book to the correct crowd so as to utilize the marketing budget efficiently.

The project uses user-book interaction data from Goodreads. Due to the large amount of data, the data was scoped down to accommodate for the limited hardware resources. Feature Engineering included multiple aggregated statistics about the user’s reading habits and similarity of the past read books. Multiple classification models were analyzed and Random Forests performed the best with an AUC of
0.95.
